---
layout: post
tags: [now]
---

### Rebuilding my personal website (again)

I spent the last year or so half-heartedly hosting my personal website on [Bear](https://bearblog.dev/), but I missed the control and ownership that came with having a Jekyll site on GitHub Pages. I’d kind-of written off doing anything more with it, then Claude Code came along. 

It’s been a lot of fun getting to know Claude Code and building this site out again. What likely would have taken me a few months has taken a few nights. I’m not a developer or a designer by trade, but I know what I want and that’s enough to make a lot of progress apparently.

### Losing weight and gaining strength (still)

I started last year pretty determined to lose a lot of weight I’d gained after a few very stressful years. What I didn’t anticipate was last year becoming more stressful when my wife got diagnosed with cancer (luckily, she got her treatment was successful and she’s doing great). 

I’m back where I started as far as numbers on the scale go, but I’ve also got a whole new perspective on why it matters to look after myself. So far I’ve lost almost 5kg through a combination of strength training, daily walks, and eating in a slight calorie deficit.

### Reviving my reading habit

I try and aim to read around 12 books a year, and last year I was nowhere close. This year I’m one down already and around a third of a way through my next. In the spirit of starting small habits and being as consistent as possible with them, I’ve been aiming for a 15-minute reading session per day and tracking it in [Bookshelf](https://getbookshelf.com).
